>> Woodruff: THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES PASSED A
SPENDING BILL SURE TO LEAD TO A
BUDGET SHOWDOWN AND POSSIBLE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
THEN, THE WHITE HOUSE PUSHED
AHEAD WITH THE FIRST FEDERAL
LIMITS OF CARBON EMISSIONS FOR
NEW POWER PLANTS, DESPITE
OPPOSITION FROM THE COAL
INDUSTRY.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS ON THE
PLIGHT OF EGYPT'S COPTIC
CHRISTIANS, AMID ONGOING
POLITICAL TURMOIL.
>> SINCE THE 2011 REVOLUTION
THAT DEPOSED HOSNI MUBARAK--
ESPECIALLY AFTER MORSI CAME TO
POWER IN 2012-- CHRISTIANS CAME
UNDER PRESSURE AS NEVER BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: AND DAVID BROOKS
AND E.J. DIONNE ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL HAS FRIDAY NIGHTS OFF
TO PREPARE FOR "WASHINGTON
WEEK."
AND THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE OUTCOME OF
TODAY'S DEBATE IN CONGRESS WAS
CERTAIN.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, IS ANYTHING
BUT.
AT STAKE: KEEPING THE GOVERNMENT
OPERATING PAST MONTH'S END, AND
KEEPING PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
SIGNATURE DOMESTIC INITIATIVE ON
TRACK.
>> ON THIS VOTE THE YAYS ARE
230, THE NAYS ARE 189, THE JOINT
RESOLUTION IS PASSED.
>> Woodruff: WITH THAT, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS CLOSED RANKS BEHIND
NOT JUST A VOTE TO PAY FOR THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, BUT YET
ANOTHER ATTEMPT TO DERAIL THE
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE REFORM
LAW.
THIS WEEK, G.O.P. LEADERS
ATTACHED A PROVISION TO
ELIMINATE ALL FUNDING FOR IT:
A MOVE THAT WAS NECESSARY TO
SATISFY TEA PARTY CONSERVATIVES,
INCLUDING JOHN CULBERSON OF
TEXAS.
>> WE IN THE HOUSE, THE
CONSTITUTIONAL CONSERVATIVE
MAJORITY HAVE KEPT OUR WORD TO
OUR CONSTITUENTS AND TO THE
NATION TO DO OUR JOB, TO FUND
THE ESSENTIAL ASPECTS OF THE
GOVERNMENT AND TO ENSURE THAT
WE'VE DONE EVERYTHING IN OUR
POWER TO PROTECT OUR
CONSTITUENTS FROM THE MOST
UNPOPULAR PIECE OF LEGISLATION
THAT HAS EVER PASSED IN THE
HISTORY OF CONGRESS-- OBAMACARE-
- BY PERMANENTLY AND TOTALLY
DEFUNDING IT.
>> Woodruff: DEMOCRATS ACCUSED
REPUBLICANS OF PUSHING A DEAD-
END STRATEGY WITH ONLY ONE
POSSIBLE ENDING.
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER NANCY
PELOSI:
>> WHAT IS BROUGHT TO THE FLOOR
TODAY IS WITHOUT A DOUBT...
WITHOUT A DOUBT A MEASURE
DESIGNED TO SHUT DOWN
GOVERNMENT.
IT COULD HAVE NO OTHER INTENT.
IT'S PURPOSE IS CLEAR.
AND IF THEY-- OUR COLLEAGUES ON
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE DENY THAT
THEN THEY HAVE NO IDEA OF THE
GRAVITY OF THE SITUATION.
>> Woodruff: THE TWO PARTIES ARE
ALSO AT ODDS OVER OVERALL
SPENDING FOR THE COMING YEAR.
THE BILL LOCKS IN LOWER OUTLAYS
ACROSS THE BOARD, FORCED BY
AUTOMATIC CUTS-- THE SO-CALLED
"SEQUESTER."
MAJORITY LEADER ERIC CANTOR:
>> AMERICANS ARE TIRED OF SEEING
THEIR GOVERNMENT CONTINUE TO
SPEND MORE AND MORE OF THEIR
HARD EARNED TAX DOLLARS AND FOR
THE FIRST TIME SINCE THE KOREAN
WAR, IT'LL BE POSSIBLE TO HAVE
TWO CONSECUTIVE YEARS OF
DISCRETIONARY SPENDING CUTS.
>> Woodruff: VIRGINIA'S JIM
MORAN AND OTHER DEMOCRATS ARGUED
TODAY THE PLAN SHORT-CHANGES
CRITICAL NEEDS.
>> WE NEED TO DO WHAT THIS
CONGRESS WAS MEANT TO DO.
WE NEED TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT
ADEQUATELY TO BE A FIRST CLASS
SOCIETY WITH A FIRST CLASS
ECONOMY THAT CAN COMPETE AND
BEAT ANYONE.
WE CAN'T DO THAT ON THE CHEAP.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Woodruff: BUT WITH A G.O.P.
MAJORITY, PASSAGE WAS NEV INER
DOUBT, AND REPUBLICANS CHEERED
THEIR LEADERS WHEN IT WAS DONE.
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER DECLARED
THE BURDEN IS NOW ON THE SENATE
TO DO WHAT THE COUNTRY WANTS.
>> OUR MESSAGE TO THE SENATE IS
REAL SIMPLE.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON'T WANT A
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN AND THEY
DON'T WANT OBAMACARE.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE SENATE'S
MAJORITY LEADER DEMOCRAT HARRY
REID MADE IT CLEAR HE DISAGREES,
INSISTING IN A STATEMENT THAT
HIS CHAMBER WILL NOT PASS ANY
MEASURE THAT TARGETS OBAMACARE.
THE SENATE TAKES UP THE SPENDING
BILL NEXT WEEK, WHILE THE HOUSE
TURNS TO ANOTHER FISCAL FIGHT,
RAISING THE NATIONAL DEBT
CEILING.
THE PRESIDENT WEHED IGIN ON THAT
ISSUE, DURING A VISIT TODAY TO
AN AUTO PLANT IN LIBERTY,
MISSOURI.
>> IF CONGRESS DOESN'T PASS THIS
DEBT CEILING IN THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS, THE UNITED STATES WILL
DEFAULT ON ITS OBLIGATIONS.
THAT'S NEVER HAPPENED IN
AMERICAN HISTORY.
BASICALLY, AMERICA BECOMES A
DEAD BEAT.
WE CAN'T JUST NOT PAY OUR BILLS.
>> Woodruff: THE TREASURY
PROJECTS THE BORROWING LIMIT
COULD BE RCHEDEA BY LATE
OCTOBER.
AND IN THE OTHER NEWS OF THIS
DAY, THE SHOWDOWN IN WASHINGTON
SPARKED A SELL-OFF ON WALL
STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 185 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,451.
THE NASDAQ FELL 14 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,774.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
ABOUT HALF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 1.5%.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
LAID OUT THE FIRST NATIONAL
LIMITS ON CARBON POLLUTION FROM
POWER PLANTS.
UNDER THE PROPOSAL, NEW COAL-
FIRED PLANTS WOULD HAVE TO
PREVENT UP TO HALF THEIR CARBON
DIOXIDE FROM ESCAPING INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE.
THE POWER INDUSTRY CONDEMNED THE
PLAN; ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS
WELCOMED IT.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS IN A
MOMENT.
CHICAGO POLICE FANNED OUT TODAY,
HUNTING CULPRITS IN A SHOOTING
THAT WOUNDED 13 PEOPLE IN A CITY
PARK.
THE YOUNGEST-- A THREE-YEAR-OLD
BOY-- REMAINS IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
WITNESSES REPORTED BULLETS WERE
FIRED FROM A PASSING CAR.
THE CITY'S POLICE SUPERINTENDENT
SAID THE ATTACK LOOKS GANG-
RELATED.
AND  CALHELED FOR ACTION
TO PREVENT MASS SHOOTINGS.
>> MILITARY TYPE WEAPONS LIKE
THE ONE WE BELIEVE TO HAVE BEEN
USED IN THIS SHOOTING BELONG ON
A BATTLEFIELD NOT ON A STREET OR
IN A CORNER OR IN A PARK IN THE
BACK OF THE YARDS.
THIS COUNTRY SHOULD HAVE A BAN
ON ASSAULT WEAPONS AND HIGH-
CAPACITY MAGAZINES LIKE THE ONES
USED IN THIS EVENT.
IT'S COMMON SENSE.
>> Woodruff: CHICAGO HAD A SURGE
OF SHOOTINGS AND HOMICIDES LAST
YEAR.
OVERALL, VIOLENT CRIME IS
ACTUALLY DOWN SO FAR THIS YEAR.
IN YEMEN, AL-QAEDA MILITANTS
KILLED 38 GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND
WOUNDED DOZENS MORE TODAY.
IT HAPPENED IN THE SOUTHERN
PROVINCE OF SHABWA, IN A REMOTE
AREA THAT WAS BLANKETED IN HEAVY
FOG AT THE TIME.
THE ATTACKERS WORE ARMY UNIFORMS
AND HIT SEVERALILIT MARY SITES.
A TOP ISRAELI OFFICIAL IS
WARNING IRAN COULD BUILD A
NUCLEAR BOMB WITHIN SIX MONTHS,
DESPITE TEHRAN'S
DIPLOMATIC OVERTURES.
THE ISRAELI STRATEGIC AFFAIRS
MINISTER YUVAL STEINITZ ISSUED
THE WARNING TODAY IN AN ISRAELI
NEWSPAPER.
HE SAID, "THERE IS NO MORE TIME
TO HOLD NEGOTIATIONS."
IN WASHINGTON, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S MARIE HARF SAID THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS NOT
READY TO GO THAT FAR.
>> WE ARE COMMITTED TO
PREVENTING IRAN FROM GETTING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, THAT ALL OPTIONS
ARE ON THE TABLE TO DO THAT, BUT
OBVIOUSLY DIPLOMACY IS THE
PREFERRED ONE, AND THAT THERE--
WE'RE NOT OUT OF TIME HERE YET
ON DIPLOMACY, OBVIOUSLY WE'D
LIKE TO GIVE IT A CHANCE TO
WORK, AND WE BELIEVE THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY RIGHT NOW TO DO JUST
THAT.
>> Woodruff: FOR HIS PART,
IRANIAN PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI
CALLED FOR CONSTRUCTIVE
INTERACTION TODAY.
WRITING IN "THE WASHINGTON
POST", HE SAID: "WE MUST WORK
TOGETHER TO END THE UNHEALTHY
RIVALRIES AND INTERFERENCES THAT
FUEL VIOLENCE AND DRIVE US
APART."
RESCUE PARTIES IN MEXICO KEPT
HUNTING FOR MUDSLIDE VICTIMS
TODAY IN A VILLAGE NORTH OF
ACAPULCO.
EMERGENCY WORKERS DUG THROUGH
THE MUD AND DEBRIS FOR 68 PEOPLE
WHO'VE BEEN MISSING SINCE A
MOUNTAINSIDE GAVE WAY.
THE DISASTER WAS TRIGGERED BY A
TROPICAL STORM.
THE RESULTING FLOODING AND
MUDSLIDES HAVE KILLED AT LEAST
97 PEOPLE, ALL TOLD.
POPE FRANCIS DENOUNCED ABORTIONS
TODAY AND URGED ROMAN CATHOLIC
DOCTORS NOT TO PERFORM THEM.
THE REMARKS CAME ONE DAY AFTER
HE WARNED THE CHURCH AGAINST
EMPHASIZING WHAT HE CALLED
SMALL-MINDED RULES.
HE SPOKE TODAY IN AN AUDIENCE
WITH CATHOLIC GYNECOLOGISTS.
>> ( translated ): DEAR FRIENDS,
DOCTORS, THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE
CALLED TO DEAL WITH HUMAN LIFE
IN ITS INITIAL PHASE, REMIND
EVERYBODY, WITH FACTS AND WORDS,
THAT THIS  LIFE IS ALWAYS, IN
ALL ITS PHASES AND AT EVERY AGE,
SACRED.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE TODAY, SOME
LEADING CATHOLIC CONSERVATIVES
VOICED DISAPPOINTMENT THAT
FRANCIS HAD NOT SPOKEN OUT ABOUT
ABORTION.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
NEW RULES TO MAKE PRODUCING
ELECTRICITY CLEANER; THE
VIOLENCE FACED BY MINORITY
CHRISTIANS IN EGYPT; THE TAXES,
CREDITS AND PENALTIES IN HEALTH
CARE REFORM; BROOKS AND DIONNE
ON THE WEEK'S NEWS AND A MEMOIR
OF LOSS IN THE RURAL SOUTH.
>> Woodruff: WE ZERO IN NOW ON
THE E.P.A.'S DECISION TO ISSUE
ITS FIRST-EVER CURBS ON POWER
PLANT EMISSIONS.
IT'S ALL PART OF A BIGGER EFFORT
TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GASES AND
IT'S GENERATING AN INTENSE
REACTION FROM BOTH SIDES.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> CLIMATE CHANGE CAUSED BY
CARBON POLLUTION IS ONE OF THE
MOST SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC HEALTH
THREATS OF OUR TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE NATIONAL
PRESS CLUB IN WASHINGTON, E.P.A.
ADMINISTRATOR GINA McCARTHY SAID
THE STAKES ARE TOO GREAT TO WAIT
TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> POWER PLANTS ARE THE SINGLE
LARGEST SOURCE OF CARBON
POLLUTION.
NEW POWER PLANTS, BOTH NATURAL
GAS AND COAL-FIRED, CAN MINIMIZE
TH EIR CARBON EMISSIONS BY
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF AVAILABLE
MODERN TECHNOLOGY.
THESE TECHNOLOGIES OFFER THEM A
CLEAR PATHWAY FORWARD TODAY AND
IN THE LONG TERM.
>> Sreenivasan: UNDER THE
PROPOSED RULES, NEW POWER PLANTS
WOULD HAVE TO INSTALL TECHNOLOGY
TO CAPTURE AND STORE CARBON
EMISSIONS.
NATURAL GAS PLANTS WOULD BE
LIMITED TO ONE-THOUSAND POUNDS
OF C.O.-2 PER MEGAWATT HOUR.
WHILE COAL-FIRED PLANTS WOULD BE
LIMITED TO 1,100 POUNDS PER
MEGAWATT HOUR.
TO PUT THAT IN CONTEXT, THE MOST
EFFICIENT PLANTS RUNNING TODAY
EMIT ABOUT 1,800 POUNDS.
WILL BE DEALT WITH IN A SEPARATE
PROPOSAL NEXT YEAR.
LAST YEAR COAL-FIRED PLANTS WERE
RESPONSIBLE FOR ABOUT A THIRD OF
AMERICA'S ENERGY-RELATED CARBON
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS AND THEY
SUPPLIED 37% OF AMERICA'S POWER.
BUT NEARLY ALL CLIMATE
SCIENTISTS SAY C.O.-2 HELPS TRAP
HEAT IN EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE,
CONTRIBUTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
AND IN 2007 THE SUPREME COURT
RULED THAT THE E.P.A. HAS THE
AUTHORITY TO REGULATE CARBON
UNDER THE CLEAN AIR ACT.
>> COAL GENERATES ELECTRICITY.
THE REGULATIONS COMING DOWN ARE
>> Sreenivasan: CRITICS LIKE THE
AMERICAN COALITION FOR CLEAN
COAL ELECTRICITY, AN INDUSTRY
GROUP HAVE BEEN CAMPAIGNING TO
KILL THE NEW RULES, SAYING THEY
ARE COSTLY FOR CONSUMERS AND
WOULD PREVENT UTILITIES FROM
BUILDING PLANTS.
C.E.O. MIKE DUNCAN ISSUED THIS
VIDEO STATEMENT:
>> THESE PROPOSED REGULATIONS
PUT AMERICA ON A DANGEROUS AND
ECONOMICALLY DESTRUCTIVE PATH.
COAL IS THE DOMINANT SOURCE OF
ELECTRICITY IN THE UNITED
STATES.
THOSE WHO BELIEVE IT CAN BE
EASILY REPLACED ARE STICKING
THEIR HEADS IN THE SAND.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PROPOSED
GUIDELINES NOW ENTER A ONE-YEAR
COMMENT PERIOD.
THE INDUSTRY SAYS NEW
TECHNOLOGIES TO STORE AND
CAPTURTHE CARBON HAS NEVER
BEEN PROVEN AT SUCH A WIDE
SCALE.
IT'S PLANING TO CHALLENGE THE
RULES IN COURT.
JULIET EILPERIN OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST" HAS BEEN
COVERING THIS AND JOINS ME NOW.
SO DO THEY HAVE A POINT?
IS CARBON SEQUESTRATION OR
CARBON CAPTURE A PROVEN
TECHNOLOGY?
WELL, IT'S PROVEN IT HAS
WORKED IN CERTAIN CASES BUT
IT HASN'T BEEN APPLIED
COMMERCIALLY ON A LARGE
SCALE.
SO IN TERMS OF DOES THIS
TECHNOLOGY ACTUALLY FUNCTION,
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT HAS IT BEEN PROVE THEN A
COMPETITIVE MARKETPLACE, THE
ANSWER IS NO.
>> Srennivasan: WE MENTIONED
EARLIER THAT THIS PARTICULAR
RULE WOULD NOT AFFECT
EXISTING COAL PLANTS.
WHY IS THE COAL INDUSTRY
RESPONDING SO VEHEMENTLY
NOW?
ARE THERE A LOT OF COAL
PLANTS IN THE PIPELINE?
>> THERE AREN'T A LOT OF
COAL PLANTS IN THE PIPELINE.
AND IN FACT A COUPLE OF THEM
THAT ARE UNDER CONSTRUCTION
ARE ONES THAT ARE DOING
CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE
SUCH AS THE PLANT IN
MISSISSIPPI.
BUT THEY REALLY SEE THIS AS
KIND OF TWO THINGS.
ONE, THE NOSE UNDER THE
CAMEL'S TENT WHICH IS THIS
IS THE BEGINNING OF
REGULATION OF GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS AND ULTIMATELY THE
ADMINISTRATION IS MOVING
FORWARD AND WILL BE
ADDRESSING EXISTING PLANTS.
AND ALSO WHILE NATURAL-GAS
PRICES ARE VERY LOW, WHICH
IS ONE OF THE REASONS WHY
PEOPLE ARE BUILDING GAS
PLANTS RATHER THAN COAL
PLANTS, OBVIOUSLY MARKET
CONDITIONS CAN CHANGE AND
THE COAL INDUSTRY DOESN'T
WANT TO BE CONSTRAINED.
THEY WANT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
COMPETE IN THE FUTURE SHOULD
MARKET SHIFT DRAMATICALLY
AND GAS BECOMES MORE
EXPENSIVE.
>> Srennivasan: SO HOW DOES
THIS FIT WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S SECOND TERM
AGENDA ON GLOBAL WAMING, ON
THE ENVIRONMENT?
>> THIS IS AN IMPORTANT PART
OF HIS AGENDA.
WHAT YOU'RE SEEING HER IS
REALLY THE-- HERE IS THE
MOST IMPORTANT DOMESTIC
INITIATIVE THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TAKEN IN HIS
SECOND TERM TO USE HIS OWN
EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY TO
TACKLE CLIMATE CHANGE.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST STEP.
AGAIN, THE EPA HAS MADE IT
CLEAR THAT IT'S GOING TO
MOVE ON AND NOW TACKLE
EXISTING PLANTS.
BUT WHAT THIS SHOWS IS THAT
THERE IS A POLITICAL
COMMITMENT ON THE PART OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND HIS TOP
DEPUTIES TO REALLY USE THE
LEVERS THAT THEY CONTROL
WHERE THEY DON'T NEED
CONGRESS TO ADDRESS CARBON
EMISSIONS NATIONWIDE.
>> Srennivasan: DOES THIS
PARTICULAR RULE CHANGE
SIGNAL WHAT WILL INEVITABLY
COME TO EXISTING COAL
PLANTS?
IS IT A SLIPPERY SLOPE THAT
THE COAL INDUSTRY IS TRYING
TO AVOID?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IT SHOWS
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO
ADDRESS THIS, GINA McCARTHY,
THE EPA ADMINISTRATOR MADE
IT CLEAR THAT PEOPLE DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO READ THE
TEA LEAVES IN THIS PROPOSAL
TO SEE WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN WHEN THEY TACKLE
EXISTING PLANTS.
RIGHT NOW, IN FACT, SHE USED
THIS PROPOSAL AS A LAUNCHING
POINT TO SAY THAT EPA IS
GOING TO REACH OUT TO
WHETHER IT'S THE STATES AS
WELL AS UTILITIES, ACROSS
THE COUNTRY TO REALLY BEGIN
THE DISCUSSIONS ABOUT WHAT
WILL IT LOOK LIKE TO
REGULATE EXISTING PLANTS,
YOU KNOW, GOING FORWARD.
BUT YOU KNOW T CLEARLY SHOWS
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO PUSH
THE ENERGY.
THAT THEY ARE COMFORTABLE
WITH THE IDEA OF USING THE
CLEAN AIR ACT TO DRIVE THE
DEPLOYMENT OF POLLUTION
CONTROL TECHNOLOGY ACROSS
THE COUNTRY IN THE POWER
SECTOR.
>> Srennivasan: GINA
McCARTHY ALSO MENTIONED THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ASPECT OF
THIS.
HOW DOES THAT FACTOR INTO
THIS RULE?
>> I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
THAT'S CERTAINLY SOMETHING
THAT'S IMPORTANT,
PARTICULARLY IN HOW THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FRAMES
THIS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT POWER
PLANTS, WHILE THIS IS
ADDRESSING, AGAIN, THE
CLIMATE IMPACT THAT THEY
HAVE, THEY ARE A MAJOR
SOURCE OF EMISSIONS THAT ARE
LINKED TO, FOR EXAMPLE, LUNG
AND HEART DISEASE, THINGS
LIKE ASTHMA THERE IS
SOMETHING LIKE 30 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO FACE SOME SORT
OF LUNG DISEASE THAT, YOU
KNOW, IN SOME WAYS ONE CAN
TIE TO POWER PLANTS.
AND SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
THEY SEE AS IMPORTANT.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
GINA McCARTHY HAS BEEN
TRYING TO DO WITH ITS
ROLLOUT OF THIS PROPOSAL IS
TALK ABOUT THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN CLIMATE AND PUBLIC
HEALTH, WHAT PEOPLE OFTEN
TALK ABOUT, FOR EXAMPLE, AT
THE AMERICAN LUNG
ASSOCIATION S THE CLIMATE
PENALTY THAT BASICALLY AS
TEMPERATURES RISE, ALL THE
CONDITIONS THAT WE HAVE
ORDINARILY INCLUDING SMOING
BECOME MORE INTENSE AND
BECOME MORE OF A PROBLEM FOR
AMERICANS.
AND SO I THINK THAT IT IS AN
IMPORTANT WAY THAT,
CERTAINLY, THE
ADMINISTRATION WILL BE
MAKING ITS CASE TO THE
PUBLIC OF WHY THIS MOVE IS
JUSTIFIED DESPITE THE CLEAR
ECONOMIC COST THAT COME WITH
IT.
>> Srennivasan: THAT'S
LIKELY TO HAPPEN NEXT IN THE
COURTS?
>> WELL, FIRST, THE FIRST
STEP IS THAT THIS RULING
NEEDS TO BE FINALIZED AND
THAT WILL TAKE A YEAR.
SO THE EPA WILL TAKE
COMMENTS ON IT.
AND THEN THEY WILL ISSUE A
FINAL RULE ABOUT A YEAR FROM
NOW.
ONCE THAT HAPPENS, I THINK
YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE
ATTORNEYS HEAD DIRECTLY TO
FEDERAL COURT TO CHALLENGE
THIS.
THEY WILL ARGUE THAT IT DOES
NOT MEET THE TEST UNDER THE
CLEAN AIR ACT THAT THIS
TECHNOLOGY HAS BEEN
ADEQUATELY DEMONSTRATED.
AND SO YOU ARE GOING TO SEE
A COURT BATTLE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THE RULE WON'T GO AHEAD.
MOST LIKELY IT WILL MOVE
AHEAD AND THEN IT WILL BE UP
TO A COURT TO BLOCK IT IF IT
CHOOSES TO DO SO.
>> Srennivasan: JULIET
EILPERIN FROM "THE
WASHINGTON POST"ING THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, IN THE FINAL
STORY FROM HER RECENT OVERSEAS
REPORTING TRIP, MARGARET WARNER
LOOKS AT EGYPT'S CHRISTIANS,
WHO HAVE BEEN VICTIMS OF DOZENS
OF ATTACKS SINCE JULY.
>> Reporter: THE ATTACKERS CAME
AT NIGHT TO THE CHURCH OF THE
VIRGIN MARY, FOR MORE THAN 60
YEARS A COPTIC CHRISTIAN
SANCTUARY IN THE VILLAGE OF KAFR
HA
>> ( translated ): THEYTTAC AKED
THE CHURCH, THEY TOOK EVERYTHING
THEY COULD TAKE-- THE GENERATOR,
THE REFRIGERATOR, EVEN BAGS THEY
THOUGHT HAD DONATION MONEY.
THEN THEY BURNED THE FIRST AND
SECOND FLOORS AND SAID, "ALLAHU
AKBAR."
>> Reporter: GUARD EMILE MOUSA
WAS ON THE JOB, BUT HE FELT
POWERLESS.
>> ( translated ): A MARCH CAME
TOWARDS THE CHURCH YELLING
"ISLAMIC, ISLAMIC" AND CURSING
THE POPE AND CHRISTIANS.
I STARTED TO CALL THE POLICE AND
THE MILITARY, BUT NO ONE
ANSWERED.
>> Reporter: THE TIMING WAS NO
EARLIER THAT DAY, AUGUST 14,
HUNDREDS OF EGYPTIANS WERE
KILLED BY SECURITY FORCES AS
THEY CLEARED TWO SIT-INS
PROTESTING THE MILITARY'S OUSTER
OF EGYPT'S PRESIDENT, MOHAMED
MORSI OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
RETALIATION CAME SWIFTLY AGAINST
CHRISTIAN CHURCHES AND POLICE
STATIONS AROUND EGYPT.
WHEN THE SMOKE CLEARED, MORE
THAN 40 CHURCHES HAD BEEN
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
MOST WERE IN FIERCELY ISLAMIST
AREAS OF SOUTHERN OR UPPER EGYPT
AND A FEW IN CAIRO'S OUTSKIRTS,
TOO.
AMID THE CHAOS THAT NIGHT, SOME
MUSLIMS LIKE NAGAH AZAB CAME TO
THE AID OF THEIR CHRISTIAN
NEIGHBORS.
>> ( translated ): CHRISTIANS
ARE MORE THAN BROTHERS TO ME.
WE LIVE TOGETHER AND IT IS GOOD
FOR US BOTH.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT WE ARE
THE ONES WHO PROTECT CHRISTIANS,
AS WE DID WHEN THE YOUNG MEN
CAME AND ATTACKED THE CHURCH ON
ORDERS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
>> Reporter: YET EVEN NOW, AWAD
SAYS, SHE LIVES IN FEAR.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE SO
AFRAID FOR OUR FAMILIES AND
CHILDREN.
WE ARE AFRAID AS CHRISTIANS TO
WEAR THE CROSS.
>> Reporter: COPTIC CHRISTIANS
HAVE WORN THAT CROSS IN EGYPT
FOR CENTURIES.
TRADITION HAS IT THE FAITH WAS
BROUGHT HERE BY THE APOSTLE
MARK.
EGYPT WAS MAJORITY CHRISTIAN
UNTIL THE 10th CENTURY, WHEN
ISLAM SPREAD.
EVEN TODAY, WITH AN ESTIMATED
10% OF THIS COUNTRY'S 85 MILLION
PEOPLE, EGYPTIAN COPTS ARE A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER.
BUT THEY DON'T ALWAYS LIVE
COMFORTABLY, SAYS GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY'S JOHN ESPOSITO.
>> THIS IS AN ANCIENT CHURCH.
IT'S THE LARGEST, MOST PEOPLE
WOULD SAY, ITS THE LARGEST
CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
BUT IN THE MODERN PERIOD, COPTS
HAVE CONTINUED TO EXPERIENCE
FORMS OF DISCRIMINATION, HATE
CRIMES, ATTACKS ON COPTS, AND
ATTACKS ON CHURCHES.
>> Reporter: IN THAT PERIOD
SINCE THE 1950s, UNDER SERIES OF
STRONGMEN EGYPTIAN RULERS,
CHRISTIAN COPTS WERE FREE TO
PRACTICE THEIR FAITH, BUT WERE
SECOND CLASS CITIZENS IN OTHER
WAYS.
AND DURING OUTBURSTS OF ISLAMIST
TERRORISM HERE-- LIKE THE 1990s-
- CHRISTIANS WERE TARGETED.
BUT SINCE THE 2011 REVOLUTION
THAT DEPOSED HOSNI MUBARAK,
ESPECIALLY AFTER MORSI CAME TO
POWER IN 2012, CHRISTIANS CAME
UNDER PRESSURE AS NEVER BEFORE,
SAYS MONA MAKRAM EBEID, A COPT,
FORMER PROFESSOR AND ONE-TIME
PARLIAMENTARIAN.
>> WE HAD EVERY WEEK OR EVERY
OTHER MONTH, A CHURCH ATTACKED,
CHRISTIANS KILLED.
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE HAS INCREASED
MUCH MORE IN THE PAST YEAR THAN
IT WAS BEFORE.
>> Reporter: GEORGETOWN'S JOHN
ESPOSITO AGREES, ESPECIALLY WHEN
IT COMES TO THE LAST TWO-AND-A-
HALF MONTHS SINCE MORSI'S
OUSTER.
>> I THINK IT'S-- ONE COULD
I THINK THAT IS THE NATURE OF
WHAT'S GOING ON IN EGYPT RIGHT
NOW.
I THINK THE ATTACKS STAND OUT AS
MUCH MORE THREATENING.
>> Reporter: HUMAN RIGHTS
INVESTIGATORS SAY THOUGH SOME
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD MEMBERS WERE
INVOLVED IN LAST MONTH'S RAMPAGE
AGAINST CHRISTIAN CHURCHES.
IT WAS NOT A CAMPAIGN THAT
APPEARED TO HAVE BEEN DIRECTED
BY THE LEADERSHIP.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE VIEW OF MUCH
OF THE PUBLIC, AS WE FOUND IN
THE SHOBRA DISTRICT OF CAIRO,
WITH A BIG COPTIC POPULATION. A
LOCAL MUSLIM LANDLORD, MONA
GHARIB, HAD NO QUESTION WHO WAS
BEHIND IT.
DO YOU THINK IT'S THE
BROTHERHOOD OR THE EXTREME
ISLAMISTS?
>> ( translated ): IT WAS THE
BROTHERHOOD, BECAUSE THEY WANTED
TO BRING BACK MORSI, BUT HE'S
NEVER COMING BACK.
>> Reporter: SHE INTRODUCED US
TO A COPTIC SHOPKEEPER, WHO
INSISTED THERE'S NO ILL FEELING
BETWEEN ORDINARY CHRISTIANS DAN
MUSLIMS HERE.
>> ( translated ): MUSLIMS AND
CHRISTIANS, WE ARE ONE HAND.
AND ANY EXTERNAL ATTEMPT TO
DIVIDE  WILUSL NEVER HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: WHO DO U THYOINK IS
TRYING TO DIVIDE YOU?
>> ( translated ): THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD; THEY ARE NOT
MUSLIMS, THEY ARE TERRORISTS AND
THEIR ACTIONS ARE NOT ISLAMIC.
EVEN IF ALL THE CHURCHES ARE
BURNED, WE WILL PRAY IN THE
MOSES.QU
WE ALL WORSHIP THE SAME GOD.
>> Reporter: AND WHEN SHE TOOK
US TO THE CHURCH OF THE VIRGIN
MARY AND ARCHANGEL MICHAEL,  THE
PASTOR, FATHER RAPHAEL RAMZY,
STRUCK THE SAME THEME.
HAVE THERE BEEN ANY THREATS
AGAINST THIS CHURCH?
>> ( translated ): NO BECAUSE
OUR MUSLIM BRETHREN PROTECT US
HERE; WE ARE LIKE ONE BIG
FAMILY.
FAR AWAY FROM THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD, WE ARE A FAMILY.
>> Reporter: THE ACCUSATION THAT
THE BROTHERHOOD WAS BEHIND THE
CHURCH ATTACKS IS AN INSIDIOUS
LIE, INSISTS ARM DARRAG, A
FORMER MINISTER IN MORSI'SROTHEL
WING, THE FREEDOM AND JUSTICE
PARTY.
>> ( translated ): THE BISHOP OF
MINYA, HE CLEARLY STATED THE
ATTACKS ON THE CHURCHES IN MINYA
WERE DONE BY THUGS WHO ARE
HISTORICALLY RELATED TO THE
SECURITY FORCES.
AND HE ACTUALLY CALLED THE
SECURITY FORCES TO COME AND HELP
IN PROTECTING THE CHURCHES, AND
THEY DECLINED.
>> Reporter: SO THE BROTHERHOOD
WAS COMPLETELY UNINVOLVED IN
THESE ATTACKS ON CHURCHES?
>> 100%.
DEFINITELY.
THIS IS AN OLD TECHNIQUE THAT
HAS ALWAYS BEEN USED
UNFORTUNATELY BY THE SOME PARTS
OF THE SECURITY FORCES TO PUT A
WEDGE BETWEEN MUSLIMS AND
CHRISTIANS IN THE COUNTRY AND
SHOW THE WORLD THAT THERE IS A
PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: SO THAT LEAVES THE
QUESTION-- WHY?
WHY DO COPTIC CHRISTIANS BECOME
TARGETS IN TIMES OF NATIONAL
STRESS?
SOME SEE POLITICAL MOTIVES
BEHIND THE LATEST ATTACKS.
MORSI HAD ACCUSED CHRISTIANS OF
WHEN GENERAL ABDEL FATAH EL-NTS
SISI ANNOUNCED HE'D DEPOSED
MORSI, HE WAS FLANKED BY CIVIL
AND RELIGIOUS FIGURES, INCLUDING
THE COPTIC POPE.
BUT MONA ZULFICAR, A PROMINENT
CORPORATE LAWYER, A MUSLIM WHO
ALSO FIGHTS FOR WOMEN'S AND
MINORITY RIGHTS, THINKS THE
ANIMOSITY GOES DEEPER THAN THAT,
AMONG THE RANKS OF ISLAMIC
FUNDAMENTALISTS.
>> ( translated ): THERE IS A
PART OF THE EXTREMISTS' VIEW
THAT LOOKS AT NON-MUSLIMS AS
INFIDELS, AND THIS IS NOT TRUE
ISLAM.
I MUST UNDERLINE THAT IS A
MALICIOUS, ABUSIVE
INTERPRETATION THAT HANOS
FOUNDATION IN THE HOLY QURAN; TO
>> Reporter: AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMITTEE NOW REWRITING EGYPT'S
CONSTITUTION, ZULFICAR IIS
PRESSING FOR IT TO INCLUDE A
GUARANTEE OF EQUAL RIGHTS AND
OPPORTUNITIEFOR S ALL EGYPTIANS.
YOU ARE NOT A CHRISTIAN.
WHY IS THIS ISSUE, WHY IS THE
PROTECTION OF THESE RIGHTS FOR
CHRISTIANS SO IMPORTANT TO YOU?
>> IF YOU START DISCRIMINATING
BETWEEN PEOPLE YOU ARE
DESTROYING THE SOCIAL FABRIC OF
THIS SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: THAT SOCIAL FABRIC
FOR CHRISTIANS HAS BEEN
DESTROYED IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
MIDDLE EAST SINCE THE ONSET OF
THE ARAB SPRING.
IN SYRIA DURING THE CURRENT
CIVIL WAR,, AND PARTICULARLY IN
IRAQ, WHERE IT'S BELIEVED MORE
THAN HALF OF ALL CHRISTIANS FLED
DURING THE YRS OEAF SECTARIAN
VIOLENCE THERE.
SO WHAT DOES THE FUTURE HOLD FOR
CHRISTIANS IN EGYPT?
>> I THINK THAT THE QUESTION OF
E FUTHTURE IS A SUPER-SERIOUS
QUESTION.
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS,
THERE'S BEEN AN UPSURGE FROM
NORTH AFRICA OR FROM EGYPT ALL
THE WAY OVER TO MALAYSIA OF
INCIDENTS INVOLVING ANTI-
CHRISTIAN GROUPS.
AND GIVEN THE, IF YOU WILL, THE
STILL CHAOTIC SITUATION IN
EGYPT, AND CERTAINLY IRAQ, WHICH
SEEMS TO BE FALLING APART, THE
WORRY HAS TO BE THAT THE
SITUATION CAN CLEARLY GET WORSE.
>> Reporter: MONA MAKRAM EBEID
CONCEDES SOME YOUNGER COPTS HAVE
LEFT EGYPT, BUT SHE HAS NO
INTENTION OF BUCKLING UNDER THE
PRESSURE.
>> CHRISTIANS HAVE BEEN HERE
SINCE BEFORE ISLAM, SO THEY ARE
SOLIDLY INGRAINED IN THE SOIL OF
EGYPT.
WE HAVE A PAST, WE HAVE A
HISTORY SO WE WILL FIGHT FOR
THAT.
>> Reporter: AND FOR A FUTURE
THAT EGYPT'S COPTIC CHRISTIANS
HOPE CAN BE THEIRS, TOO.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE MORE OF
MARGARET'S REPORTING FROM EGYPT
ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
NEXT WEEK, SHE'LL BE REPORTING
FROM NEW YORK AT THE UNITED
NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
AND ONLINE, WE REPORT ON HOW A
COPTIC CHRISTIAN CONGREGATION IN
THE U.S. IS HELPING TO WELCOME
CHRISTIANS WHO HAVE FLED EGYPT.
>> Woodruff: AND WE RETURN TO
THE SUBJECT OF HEALTHCARE
REFORM.
EVEN AS REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING
TO SHUT OFF FUNDING FOR THE LAW,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION AND
SOME STATES ARE PREPARING FOR A
PIVOTAL NEW PHASE TO TAKE EFFECT
IN OCTOBER.
THAT'S WHEN NEW EXCHANGES, OR
ONLINE INSURANCE MARKETPLACES,
ARE SET TO OPEN.
WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO ANSWER YOUR
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ALL
WEEK.
AND RAY SUAREZ LEADS THE WAY
AGAIN TONIGHT.
>> Suarez: WE'VE SPENT SOME
TIME LAYING OUT SOME OF THE
BASICS OF THE EXCHANGES AND
THE PREMIUMS CONSUMERS MIGHT
PAYMENT BUT WE'RE ALSO
GETTING A NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS ON OTHER RELATED
FINANCIAL ISSUES SUCH AS TAX
CREDITS, TAXES, AND
PENALTIES STILL TO COME.
AND THAT'S OUR FOCUS TONIGHT
AND ONCE AGAIN JULIE ROVNER
OF NPR JOINS US.
AND JULIE TO GET PEOPLE TO
DO THINGS AND TO THE DO
THINGS THERE ARE ALL KINDS
OF INSEN FIVS AND
DISINCENTIVES-- INCENTIVES
AND DISINCENTIVES BAKED INTO
THE LAW.
WHAT ABOUT THE SUB CITIES
AND TAX CREDITS.
HOW DO THEY WORK.
>> THE IDEA IS IF ARE YOU
GOING TO REQUIRE PEOPLE TO
HAVE INSURANCE, THEN YOU
WANT TO MAKE IT AFFORDABLE.
SO THERE ARE SUBSIDIES FOR
PEOPLE BETWEEN 100 PERCENT,
FOR AN AVERAGE INDIVIDUAL
THAT IS ABOUT 11,000 TO
$45,000 A YEAR FOR A FAMILY
OF FOUR, ABOUT 23,000, ALL
THE WAY UP TO ABOUT 92,000
OF INCOME.
NOW ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I
HAVE GOTTEN A LOT IS DO YOU
HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE END
OF THE YEAR TO GET TAX
CREDITS.
THE ANSWER IS NO, IF YOU
QUALIFY YOU WILL BE ABLE TO
GET THEM MONTHLY SO IT WILL
HELP IMMEDIATELY OFFSET THE
COST OF THAT INSURANCE.
>> Suarez: AND IN A COUNTRY
WITH A MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME
IN THE LOW 50,000S RANGE,
THAT CAPTURES MOST AMERICAN
FAMILIES THAT 400% OF
POVERTY.
>> YES, MANY OF THE PEOPLE
WHO GO TO THE EXCHANGES WHO
DON'T HAVE INSURANCE WILL BE
ABLE TO GET SOME KIND OF A
SUBSIDY, SOME KIND OF HELP
TO HELP THEM PAY FOR
INSURANCE.
IN MANY CASES IT WILL BE
POSSIBLY ALMOST EQUIVALENT
TO WHAT THEY WOULD GET IF
THEY HAD HEALTH COMING FROM
AN EMPLOYER, THAT'S THE
IDEA.
>> Suarez: ALL WEEK WE'VE
BEEN FIELDING QUESTIONS FROM
PEOPLE WHO HAVE ASKED US
ABOUT THINGS THEY STILL
DON'T UNDERSTAND, THAT IT'S
IN THE LAW.
LET'S TAKE A LISTEN.
>> I'M MICHELLE FROM FLORIDA,
AND MY QUESTION IS HOW WOULD
A TAX CREDIT AFFECT THOSE
UNINSURED.
>> Suarez: IS THIS DIFFERENT
IF YOU ARE NOT WORKING RIGHT
NOW?
>> NO BASICALLY, IT'S THE
SAME.
IF YOU GO TO THE EXCHANGE,
IF YOU ARE UNINSURED OR IF
YOU BUY YOUR OWN INSURANCE,
AGAIN, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT THE EXCHANGES
ARE NOT REALLY FOR PEOPLE
WHO HAVE INSURANCE AT THEIR
JOBS.
IT'S FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
WHAT WE CALL THE INDIVIDUAL
MARKET, PEOPLE WHO BUY THEIR
INSURANCE ON THEIR OWN
WITHOUT THE HELP OF AN
EMPLOYER, OR PEOPLE WHO ARE
UNINSURANCED WHO DON'T HAVE
INSURANCE, DON'T HAVE ACCESS
TO EMPLOYER PROVIDED
INSURANCE.
AND AGAIN, ALL OF THOSE
PEOPLE WITHOUT GO TO THE
EXCHANGE WOULD BE HE LEGIBLE
FOR THE SUBSIDIES, THESE TAX
CREDITS IF THEY ARE BETWEEN
100%6 POV THE AND 400% OF
POVERTY, THEIR INCOME.S ON-LINES
FROM BOB S WHO WRITES YOU
SAY YOU'RE GOING TO EXPLAIN
OBAMA CARE.
EXPLAIN TITLE 9 OF OBAMA
CARE.
TITLE 919 REVENUE SECTION.
IT CONTAINS 23 NEW
TAXES-- TITLE 9.
WHAT IS OBAMA CARE GOING TO
COST US TAXWISE.
>> WELL, THE SHORT ANSWER IS
THAT WHEN OBAMACARE PASSED,
IT WAS ESTIMATESED TO COST
ABOUT A TRILLION DOLLARS
OVER TEN YEARS.
AND EVERYBODY AGREED THAT IT
WOULD NOT ADD TO THE DEFICIT.
SO INDEED THERE ARE A LOT OF
TAXES TO PAY FOR IT THESE
TAXES BASICALLY, THEY TRIED
TO SPREAD THEM AS WIDELY AS
THEY COULD SO EVERYBODY
WOULD HAVE TO PAY A LITTLE
BIT THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
NEW TAX ON PEOPLE WHO ARE
WEALTHIER, WHO EARN MORE
THAN $200,000 AS AN
INDIVIDUAL OR $250,000 AS A
COUPLE.
THERE IS AN INCREASE IN
THEIR MEDICARE PAYROLL TAX.
THERE'S INCREASES IN TAXES
ON THEIR UNEARNED INCOME.
THERE ARE ALSO INCREASES IN
THINGS LIKE THERE IS A 10%
TAX ON INDOOR TANNING
SERVICES, THAT'S TO DETER
PEOPLE FROM DOING THAT.
CONSIDERED RELATIVELY
DANGEROUS, ENCOURAGES
POSSIBLY COULD LEAD TO SKIN
CANCER.
THERE ARE ALSO TACKS ON MANY
PIECES OF THE HEALTH-CARE
SYSTEM.
THERE ARE IS A NEW TAX ON
MEDICAL DEVICE MANUFACTURERS,
ON HEALTH INSURERS
THEMSELVES, ON
PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS,
I MIGHT ADD THAT ALL OF THEM
ARE COMPLAINING AND WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THE TAXES EITHER
REDUCED OR TAKEN AWAY.
>> Suarez: BUT AGAIN THAT
TRILLION DOLLARS IS OVER THE
COURSE OF THE FIRST DECADE
OF THE LAW.
>> YES T IS.
>> Suarez: WE GOT A QUESTION
INVOLVING THE MANDATES.
BECAUSE THAT WAS ONE OF THE
MOST CONTROVERSIAL PARTS OF
THIS LAW.
THAT YOU WOULD BE REQUIRED
TO ENTER THE INSURANCE
MARKET.
LET'S TAKE A LOOK.
>> I'M KEVIN BROWN, FROM
IOWA.
AND I'VE GOT A FRIEND THAT'S
UNINSURANCED AND I'M KIND OF
WORRIED WHAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN WITH THE PREM
TOMB-- PREMIUMS AND HOW THE
FINES WORK, REALLY.
>> Suarez: DO WE KNOW YET
HOW THE FINES ARE GOING TO,
WITHOUT.
HOW THEY ARE GOING TO BE
LEVIED, HOW HIGH THEY WILL
BE.
>> YES, WE'VE KNOWN FROM THE
BEGINNING BUT ALSO A SOURCE
OF GREAT CONFUSION.
THE FIRST YEAR IF YOU
ARE-- IF YOU DON'T HAVE
INSURANCE, AT TAX TIME IN
2015, IF YOU DON'T HAVE
INSURANCE IN 2014, THE FINE
IS $95 OR 1% OF YOUR TAXABLE
INCOME, WHICH SEVER GREATER.
THAT FINE GOES UP OVER
SEVERAL YEARS, EVENTUALLY IT
BECOMES $695 OR 2.5% OF YOUR
INCOME.
NOW THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO WON'T BE SUBJECT
TO THE FINE IF THEY DON'T
HAVE INSURANCE.
IF FOR INSTANCE YOU DON'T
MAKE ENOUGH MONEY TO HAVE TO
FILE FEDERAL INCOME TAXES,
THAT'S ABOUT 10,000 DOLLARS
FOR AN INDIVIDUAL, ABOUT
20,000 FOR A COUPLE.
THOSE PEOPLE ARE EXEMPT FROM
THE REQUIREMENT TO HAVE
INSURANCE.
THEY'RE ALSO CERTAIN PEOPLE
IF YOU ARE NOT HERE LEGALLY,
OBVIOUSLY YOU ARE EXEMPT
FROM IT.
IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF
CERTAIN RELIGIOUS ORDERS YOU
ARE EXEMPT FROM THE MANDATE.
IF BUYING THE LOWEST COST
INSURANCE AVAILABLE WOULD
COST MORE THAN 8% OF YOUR
GROSS INCOME, ARE YOU ALSO
EXEMPT FROM THAT.
SO THOSE PEOPLE WOULD NOT
HAVE TO PURCHASE INSCE
TO PAY THE FINE.
>> Suarez: WHEN YOU ARE
DESIGNING A FINE IT HAS TO
BE HIGH ENOUGH TO HURT AND
NOT SO LOW THAT THE PERSON
WOULD SAY OH, THEN I'LL
GLADLY PAY THE FINE INSTEAD.
HOW DID THEY NEGOTIATE THAT
SWEET SPOT.
>> WELL, THERE'S A CONCERN
FROM THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY
THAT, INDEED, THIS FINE IS
NOT BIG ENOUGH.
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE WILL
SIMPLY PAY THE FINE RATHER
THAN PURCHASE INSURANCE.
BUT THERE'S ALSO, YOU KNOW,
ONE OF THE GOALS OF THIS LAW
IS TO MAKE INSURANCE MORE
AFFORDABLE, THAT PEOPLE WILL
WANT INSURANCE.
AND THAT THEY WILL GO OUT
AND BUY INSURANCE BECAUSE
INSURANCE, THEY WILL THINK
INSURANCE IS A GOOD AND
IMPORTANT THING TO HAVE.
REMEMBER IF YOU PAY THE FINE,
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO PAY THAT
MUCH BUT YOU'RE ALSO NOT
GOING HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> Suarez: JULIE ROVNER OF
NPR, THANKS AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF BROOKS AND DIONNE.
"NEW YORK TIMES" COLUMNIST DAVID
BROOKS AND "WASHINGTON POST"
COLUMNIST E.J. DIONNE.
MARK SHIELDS IS OFF TODAY.
GENTLEMEN, WELCOME.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Woodruff: SO JUST NINE
DAYS UNTIL THE START OF THE
FISCAL REAR, DAVID, THE
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE
HAVE THROWN DOWN THE
GAUNTLET.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO FUND
THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE
COMING YEAR, THEY SAY,
UNLESS THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH-CARE PLAN IS ZEROED
OUT.
WHERE IS IT HEADED?
>> I'M MR. POLLY ANNA ONS
THIS, I THINK IT WILL BE
FINE.
I THINK WHAT HAPPENED, THERE
WAS A MINORITY OF HOUSE
REPUBLICANS WHO UP SET THE
MAJORITY, UP SET THE
LEADERSHIP.
THEY WANTED TO HAVE THIS BIG
THING, WE'RE GOING TO DEFUND
OBAMA CARE OR ELSE SHUT DOWN
THE GOVERNMENT.
THE LEADERS DIDN'T REALLY
WANT TO DO THIS.
THEY THOUGHT WAS A DEADEND
OR ARE CALLING IT A BOX
CANYON WHICH IS THE METAPHOR
OF THE WEEK.
BUT THEY HAVE THESE PEOPLE,
THEY'LL GIVE THEM WHAT THEY
WANT FROM PRESSURE FROM THE
RIGHT SO THEY GIVE THEM WHAT
THEY WANT.
THEY PASS THIS THING, NO
FUNDING FOR OBAMA CARE.
IT'S GOING TO DIE IN THE
SENATE.
AND THEN I THINK THEY WILL
COME BACK OR EITHER FUDGE OR
CAVE IN.
AND I SUSPECT WE WILL NOT BE
SHUTTING DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT WHAT
YOU THINK?
>> WELL, I THINK THE
REPUBLICANS AT THIS POINT
ARE GOING TO CALL IN
VLADIMIR PUTIN TO SET THE
CIVIL WAR.
THIS IS AN ASTONISHING FIGHT
WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
AND THE ONE GUY BRINGING
THEM TOGETHER IS SENATOR TED
CRUZ WHO IS THE GUY WHO
PUSHED THE REPUBLICANS IN
THIS DIRECTION AND THEN SAID
WELL, REALLY WE'RE TO THE
GOING TO DO IT IN THE
SENATE.
IT'S UP TO YOU GUYS IN THE
HOUSE.
LATER HE MADE A KIND OF
CHURCHILLIAN STATEMENT
SAYING I WILL FIGHT ALL THE
WAY.
BUT A LOT OF REPUBLICANS AR
ARE-- THAT THEY GOT PUT IN
THIS BOX.
MORE MODERATE REPUBLICANS
SAY WE SHOULDN'T BE HERE AT
ALL.
AND THE CONSERVATIVES SAY
ARE YOU GOING TO REALLY BACK
US UP.
I AM MORE INCLINED THAN I
WAS A FEW DAYS AGO TO THINK
WE'LL AVOID A SHUTDOWN.
THERE'S A LOT OF PRESSURE
BUILDING WITHIN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY TO SAY THIS
IS THE DUMBEST STRATEGY WE
COULD PURSUE.
AND I THINK THAT IS STARTING
TO SINK IN.
BUT PART OF THAT PARTY FEELS
THIS VERY, VERY STRONGLY.
AND SO I'M NOT SURE THEY'RE
GOING TO ROLL OVER ALL THAT
EASILY.
>> WELL, GIVEN THAT WHO IS
CALLING THE SHOTS IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, WHO IS IN
CHARGE IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
>> APPARENTLY SENATOR TED
CRUZ IS IN CHARGE.
AND THESE 43 OR SOME ODD,
COUPLE DOZEN MORE TEA PARTY
REPUBLICANS.
MOSTLY THERE ARE A COUPLE
THINGS GOING ON.
FIRST THE PEOPLE ON THE FAR
RIGHT, WELL, WE'LL CALL IT
THE FAR RIGHT, HAVE JUST THE
MEDIA BEHIND THEM.
THEY'VE GOT A LOT OF
MOMENTUM BEHIND THEM.
AND NOBODY REALLY WANTS TO
ANGER THEM.
AND IT'S JUST EASIER TO
PLACATE IF YOU ARE
LEADERSHIP THAN IT IS TO
TAKE THEM ON.
I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY THE
WRONG STRATEGY WRONG TERM.
AT SOME POINT YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A SHOWDOWN PROBABLY
WITH THE TED CRUZES OF THE
WORLD IF YOU ARE IN
LEADERSHIP.
AT SOME POINT IF ARE YOU IN
LEADERSHIP, AND BELIEVE ME,
THE REPUBLICAN LEADERS
DETEST HIM.
HE'S REALLY UNPOPULAR.
AND AT SOME POINT THEY THINK
HE'LL BURN OUT.
MAYBE THAT'S TRUE.
>> Suarez: THAT'S CRUZ.
>> THAT'S CRUZ.
>> BECAUSE THEY WANT TO
IMPOSE SOME PARTY STRUCTURE.
THEY WANT THE LEADERS OF THE
PARTY TO LEAD A PARTY.
THEY BELIEVE POLITICS IS A
TEAM SPORT.
A LOT OF THESE REPUBLICANS
LIKE CRUZ AND LIKE SOME IN
THE HOUSE AND LIKE JIM
DEMINT WHO IS A FORMER
SENATOR NOW AT THE HERITAGE
FOUNDATION, THEY ARE DOING
VERY WELL FOR THEMSELVES BY
RUNNING AGAINST THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
THEY CAN RAISE A LOT OF
MONEY.
THEY CAN BUILD THEIR
NATIONAL STATURE, POTENTIAL
PRESIDENTIAL OPTIONS.
BUT IT'S VERY BAD FOR THE
LEADERSHIP.
AND SO EVENTUALLY I THINK
THEY WILL HAVE TO HAVE A
CONFRONTATION AND SHOW WHO'S
BOSS, SOMEHOW.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THE
ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION WHEN
YOU ASK WHO IS THE LEADER OF
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY, RIGHT
NOW THERE IS REALLY NO
LEADERSHIP.
AND I WAS TOLD BY A
CONSERVATIVE TODAY, MADE A
REALLY INTERESTING POINT.
A LOT OF REPUBLICANS AREN'T
NECESSARILY WORRIED THAT
THEY WILL LOSE A PRIMARY TO
A TEA PARTY CANDIDATE.
WHAT THEY ARE WORRIED ABOUT
IS HAVING THE PRIMARY IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
HAVING TO RAISE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS, FACE A
LOT OF NEGATIVE ADS.
AND SO ALLOTS OF REPUBLICANS
ARE JUST RELUCTANT TO CROSS
THE LINE EVEN WHEN THEY ARE
NOT INCLINED TO AGREE WITH
THEM.
AND THAT SORT OF REALLY
MAKES JOHN BOEHNER'S JOB
VERY DIFFICULT.
AND BOEHNER HIMSELF IS
WORRIED ABOUT CROSSING THEM
BECAUSE HE'S WORRIED ABOUT
LOSING HIS LEADERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: DAVID IS SAYING
THE LEADERSHIP NEEDS TO
CONFRONT THE TEA PARTY.
>> I MEAN I COULD MAKE THE
ALTERNATIVE CASE, JUST LET
IT SORT OF PLAY ITSELF OUT.
BUT YOU KNOW, THAT'S A
DANGEROUS GAME.
THE PROBLEM THE LEADERSHIP
HAS, WHAT EXACTLY IS THEIR
LEVERAGE OVER THESE PEOPLE,
WHETHER ARE YOU LEADERSHIP
IN THE HOUSE OR
LEADERSHIP-- THEY REALLY ARE
FERVENT BELIEVERS.
THEY HAVE TOTAL CONVICTION
IN THEIR CAUSE.
THEY'RE NOT-- AFRAID OF
BEING DENIED COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS.
AND CRUCIALLY, AND THIS
REALLY HAS AFFECTED CAPITOL
HILL IN TERRIBLE WAYS, WHEN
WE GOT RID OF EARMARKS WE
GOT RID OF THE POWER LEADERS
HAVE OVER THEIR OWN MEMBERS.
SO GETTING RID OF THE
EARMARKS, THE LITTLE SPECIAL
INTEREST SPENDING
LEGISLATION WAS VERY BAD FOR
WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: AND THIS ISN'T
THE END OF IT.
YOU HAVE GOT THE DEBT
CEILING DECISION COMING UP
IN JUST A FEW WEEKS.
HOW DO YOU SEE THIS GETTING
REVOLVED?
I MEAN ARE WE LOOKING
POTENTIALLY AT A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN?
>> I THINK, AS I SAY, I
THINK IT RECEDED A LITTLE
BIT THIS WEEK.
BUT THE DEBT SEALING IS
REALLY FRIGHTENING.
IF WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF
CONGRESS DOESN'T APPROVE THE
DEBT CEILING.
AND ONE WAY SPEAKER BOEHNER
MIGHT GET THIS ROUND,
MEANING THEY WILL GET SOME
AGREEMENT SO THEY DON'T SHUT
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
BUT THIS HE HAVE TO DO
SOMETHING THEN ON OBAMACARE.
AND IT'S REALLY THIS
FIXATION ON OBAMACARE I
THINK IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
AND I HAVE STARTED TO
BELIEVE THAT THEY'RE NOT
AFRAID OF OBAMACARE BECAUSE
THEY THINK IT WON'T WORK.
THEY'RE AFRAID OF IT BECAUSE
THEY THINK IT WILL WORK.
AND TED CRUZ ALMOST SAID
THAT WHEN HE SAID LOOK THIS
IS OUR LAST CHANCE, BECAUSE
PEOPLE WILL GET HOOKED ON
OBAMACARE.
PEOPLE DON'T GET HOOKED ON
BAD PROGRAMS.
THEY GET HOOKED ON SOCIAL
SECURITY, THEY GET HOOKED ON
MEDICARE SO I THINK THERE
REALLY IS THIS FEAR WE CAN'T
LET THIS HAVE A CHANCE.
>> THERE I DISAGREE WITH
YOU.
I REALLY THINK IT'S TO THE
GOING TO, WITHOUT.
THERE ARE ALL THESE
ANOMALIES IN THE LAW THERE
ARE THINGS THAT ARE JUST
MESSING UP ALREADY.
THEY'RE REASONABLY CONFIDENT
IT WILL NOT WORK AND THEY
JUST THINK IT IS A JOB KILL.
IT IS ALSO POLITICAL GOLD
FOR THEM.
AN EXTREMELY UNPOPULAR
PROGRAM.
SO IT'S A NO-BRAINER
POLITICALLY AND
SUBSTANTIVELY.
>> THE PARTICULARS ARE
POPULAR.
IF YOU POLL ON OBAMACARE,
IT'S UNPOPULAR.
BUT PEOPLE WANT TO KEEP
PROTECTIONS AGAINST THE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST ON
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS, WANT
TO KEEP THEIR KOINSD PARENTS
PLANS THERE ARE A WHOLE
BUNCH OF THINGS WHERE IF YOU
REPEALED OBAMACARE PEOPLE
WOULD SAY WAIT A MINUTE, WE
JUST LOST A LOT OF STUFF.
AND I THINK IT'S GOING TO
WORK BETTER THAN DAVID DOES.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
LARRY SUMMERS TOOK HIMSELF
OUT OF THE RUNNING, AN
UNUSUAL STEP.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS NOW
INDICATING, SUGGESTING IT'S
PROBABLY, OR JANET
YELLIN THE FEDERAL RESERVE
GOVERNOR IS PROBABLY THE
CANDIDATE TO CHAIR THE
FEDERAL RESERVE.
BUT WHAT DOES ALL THIS IS A,
DAVID B HOW THE WHITE HOUSE,
HOW THE PRESIDENT IS HANDLED
THIS?
>> I'M A LITTLE MISFIND BY
THE FACT THAT AFTER THE
SUSAN RICE IMBROG LEO IN
WHICH SHE WAS SORT OF HUNG
OUT THERE AND THERE WAS NO
COMMENT FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
AND PEOPLE WERE ATTACKING
HER, DEBATING WHETHER SHE
ULDWO OR WOULD NOT BE A GOOD
SECRETARY OF STATE, THEY GOT
IN EXACTLY THE SAME FIX WITH
LARRY SUMMERS.
SORT OF MENTIONING NAMES,
FLOATING NAMES.
AND THEN HE IS SORT OF
HANGING OUT THERE BEING
ATTACKED FROM THE LEFT.
BEING DEFENDED A LITTLE.
TO THE BEING DEFENDED ENOUGH
FROM INSIDE.
AND IT TAKES THE
DECISION-MAKING POWER OUT OF
THE PRESIDENT'S HANDS AND
BECOMES A PUBLIC VOLLEYBALL.
AND IT'S UNFAIR TO SUMMERS
AS IT WAS UNFAIR TO RICE.
AND IT'S SORT OF UNFAIR TO
THE PRESIDENT BECAUSE HE
CAN'T MAKE A DECISION.
SO MY ADVICE WOULD BE PICK
SOMEBODY AND MAKE THE
DECISION QUICKLY.
DON'T LET IT BECOME A
TUG-OF-WAR.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
EXPLAIN THE THINKING BEHIND
ALL OF THIS?
>> I'M NOT SURE WHAT
THINKINGS THERE WAS BEHIND
THIS.
I THINK THIS WAS A REAL
PROBLEM WITH THE HANDLING.
FIRST HE KIND OF LEAKS
PREMATURELY THAT BERNANKE IS
LEAVING.
THAT SETS OFF ALL THIS
SPECULATION.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT.
>> THE PRESIDENT, YES.
AND IF HE REALLY WANTED
LARRY SUMMERS, HE HAD TO
MOVE REALLY QUICKLY.
HE ALLOWED THIS TO BREW.
AND THERE IS WITHIN THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY NOW A MORE,
SORT OF IF YOU WILL,
POPULIST LEFT THAT IS REALLY
UNHAPPY ABOUT SOME ASPECTS
OF CLINTONISM AND OBAMAISM,
PARTICULARLY THE
DEREGULATION OF THE 1990s
THAT LARRY SUMMERS WAS
INVOLVED IN.
I THINK SUMMERS ACTUALLY-- HIS
IMAGE NONETHELESS HE WAS
VERY ENTANGLED IN THAT.
IN THE MEANTIME THEY ALREADY
HAD A PROBLEM IN NOT
APPOINTING ENOUGH WOMEN IN
THE EYES OF WOMEN.
AND HERE YOU HAVE JANET
YELLIN IS WHO AN EMINENTLY
QUALIFIED PERSON WHATEVER
HER AGENDA.
AND SO THEY JUST HAD A
SITUATION WHERE PROGRESSIVE
DEMOCRATS WERE READY TO DRAW
A LINE HERE AND MAKE A
POINT.
AND THEY HAD TO BACK DOWN
AND LARRY SUMMERS HAD TO
DROP OUT.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL SEE WHAT
HAPPENS.
WE EXPECT THERE COULD BE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT PRETTY SOON.
ANOTHER GRIM SUBJECT,
ANOTHER MASS SHOOTING THIS
WEEK, DAVID.
EVERYBODY DISMAYED AT THIS
TRAGIC SHOOTING AT THE NAVY
YARD HERE IN WASHINGTON.
THE FOCUS AGAIN SEEMS TO BE
ON PEOPLE WITH MENTAL
ILLNESS, EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS
HAVING ACCESS TO GUNS.
IS THERE ANY SENSE THAT
EITHER CONGRESS OR SOME
MECHANISM TO GET AT THAT.
OR WHAT?
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> I THINK NOTHING'S GOING
TO HAPPEN ON THE GUN FRONT.
THE FACT THAT TWO COLORADO
STATE LEGISLATORS LOST THEIR
JOBS RECENTLY OVER GUN LAWS
I THINK THAT SUGGESTS AT
LEAST IN THE NEAR TERM GUN
CONTROL LEGISLATION IS TO
THE GOING ANYWHERE.
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
HASN'T BECOME LESS POPULAR
SINCE THE CONNECTICUT
SHOOTING IN THE SCHOOL.
BUT THE MENTAL HEALTH THING
HAS SORT OF BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT.
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT WAS
THE BEST WAY TO GO.
THERE ARE 250 MILLION GUNS
IN THE CONTROL, IT'S REALLY
HARD TO REGULATE GUNS AND
KEEP THEM OUT OF THE HANDS
OF PEOPLE.
WE COULD HAVE A MUCH, MUCH,
MUCH BETTER MENTAL HEALTH
SYSTEM.
I ALWAYS THOUGHT INVESTING
IN THERE, FIRST OF ALL T MAY
PREVENT SOME OF THESE
VIOLENT ATTACKS BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY YOU GET A BETTER
MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM.
SO DOING ON ITS OWN
INTRINSIC BASIS IS WORTH IT
EVEN WITHOUT THE SHOOTING.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHY HASN'T
THAT HAPPENED.
YOU HAVE HAD SEVERAL
SHOOTINGS, WHERE THE
PERPETRATORS ARE DUALED TO
HAVE HAD EMOTIONAL OR MENTAL
PROBLEMS.
>> FIRST OF ALL, I SUSPECT
IF YOU LOOK AT THE SEQUESTER
WE'RE PROBABLY TAKING LOT OF
MONEY OUT OF MENTAL HEALTH
AS WE SIT HERE.
I DON'T DISAGREE ON WITH
DAVID ON THE IMPORTANCE OF
MENTAL HEALTH BUT I THINK IS
A GIGANTIC INVASION TO SAY
WE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT
GUNS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LIST OF
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD THAT
HAVE HAD MASS SHOOTINGS OVER
THE LAST I THINK 50 YEARS,
WE ARE NUMBER ONE AT 15RX
FINLAND IS NUMBER TWO WITH
TWO OF THEM.
THERE'S SOMETHING DIFFERENT
BUS.
IT'S NOT THAT WE ARE MORE
VIOLENT PEOPLE.
IT'S WE HAVE THE MOST
PERMISSIVE GUN LAWS IN THE
WORLD.
AND I JUST THINK THIS IS ONE
OF THOSE SUBJECTS AS A COACH
ONE OF MY SONS ONCE SAID,
WHERE YOU JUST HAVE TO KEEP
COMING AT THEM.
AND I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE SIDE THAT WANTS TO HAVE
SOME REALLY SENSIBLE
REGULATIONS ON GUNS, THEY
HAVE NOT BEEN AS WELL
ORGANIZED AS THE NRA.
THE NRA HAS BEEN AT THIS FOR
30 YEARS.
THERE'S BEEN A RENEWAL OF
ORGANIZATION SINCE NEWTOWN.
AND I THINK YOU JUST HAVE TO
KEEP COMING BACK AT THIS.
A LOT OF STATES HAVE PASSED
BETTER LAWS EVEN THOUGH YOU
HAD THE RECALLS IN COLORADO.
I THINK YOU HAVE GOT TO
BRING IT BACK TO THE FLOOR
OF SENATE.
AND SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO
LOSE SOME FIGHTS BEFORE YOU
CAN WIN THEM.
ooTHAT'S DOABLE.
>> NO I THINK THEY'RE
SO-- MANY, MAY BE STUDIES ON
GUN CONTROL WHETHER IT
REDUCES VIOLENCE, MURDER OR
ANYTHING ELSE.
GUN CONTROL REDUCES SUICIDE
IT DOES NOT RE-- REDUCE
VIOLENCE.
I THINK IS WEAK AFFECT YOU
GET FROM TRYING TO CONTROL
THE GUN, MUCH MORE PROMISING
TO TRY  DOTO SOMETHING ABOUT
THE MENTAL HEALTH SIDE THIS
IS WHY IT HASN'T HAPPENED IT
HAS BECOME A LEFT RIGHT
FEUD.
THE RIGHT TALK APPROXIMATES
ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH.
>> THE RIGHT TALKS ABOUT
MENTAL HEALTH AND DOESN'T
FUND IT I THINK MENTAL
HEALTH ANCHORS THIS
CONVERSATION BECAUSE IT'S A
WAY OF PUSHING BACK AGAINST
GUN CONTROL.
WE SHOULD HAVE A SERIOUS
CONVERSATION ABOUT MENTAL
HEALTH AND A SERIOUS
CONVERSATION ABOUT
REGULATING GUNS.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK
YOU ABOUT WHAT THE POPE SAID
IN THIS INTERVIEW YESTERDAY.
A KIND OF REMARKABLE
COMMENTS, DAVID AND EJ,
SAYING THAT THE CHURCH HAS
FOCUSED ONCATHOLIC CHURCH
WHAT HE CALLED SMALL RULES.
SMALL MINDED RULES.
AND TOO MUCH ON ABORTION AND
CONTRACEPTION.
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING?
>>.
>> PEOPLE ARE FOCUSING I
THINK TOO MUCH ON THE
ABORTION CONTRACEPTION.
THE CHURCH IS TO THE GOING
TO CHANGE ITS VIEWS ON THAT.
WE SHOULD FOCUS ON IS THE
PERSONALITY OF FRANCIS.
REMARK RBL PERSONALITY.
I REALLY RECOMMEND EVERYBODY
REEDS THIS GORGEOUS
PERSONALITY, READ THAT
INTERVIEW YOU SEE A MAN YOU
TREMENDOUSLY ADMIRE WHO I
THINK WILL HAVE A TREMENDOUS
AFFECT ON THE WORLD.
>> MY FAVORITE LINE IN THE
INTERVIEW IS IF ONE HAS ALL
THE ANSWERS TO ALL THE
QUESTIONS, THAT IS PROOF
THAT GOD IS NOT WITH HIM, I
SHOULD PROBABLY SAY I DON'T
KNOW IN THIS QUESTION.
I DO THINK WHAT HE SAID
ABOUT ABORTION AND GAY
MARRIAGE AND ALL OF THAT WAS
A VERY BIG DEAL.
BECAUSE HE HASN'T CHANGED
THE CHURCHES VIEW ON
ABORTION AS YOU REPORTED
EARLIER IN THE SHOW.
HE GAVE A VERY STRONG SPEECH
ON ABORTION, BUT WHAT HAS
HAPPENED IS THAT
CONSERVATIVE FORCES IN THE
CHURCH HAVE SO EMPHASIZED
ABORTION AND GAY MARRIAGE
AND THOSE ISSUES THAT THE
CHURCH'S RICH TRADITION OF
SOCIAL TEACHING AND CONCERN
FOR THE POOR HAVE BEEN
PUSHED TO THE LAST PEW.
AND WHAT HE'S SAYING IS I'M
NOT GOING TO DO THAT ANY
MORE.
I'M NOT GOING TO CHANGE THE
CHURCH'S DOCTRINE BUT THE
CHURCH IS GOING TO BE MUCH
MORE ABOUT THIS.
HE'S ALSO SAYING I DON'T
WANT TO REDUCE THE CHURCH TO
A SMALL GROUP OF VERY
ORTHODOX BELIEVERS.
I WANT TO OPEN THESE DOORS
AND WELCOME PEOPLE IN.
>> Woodruff: MUCH TO THINK
ABOUT.
EJ DIONNE, DAVID BROOKS,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
TALE OF LIVES ON THE MARGIN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: FIVE YOUNG MEN DEAD
WITHIN THE SPACE OF FOUR YEARS.
THEY DIED OF DIFFERENT CAUSES--
ACCIDENTS, DRUGS, AND SUICIDE.
THEY HAD IN COMMON BEING BLACK,
MALE, FROM RURAL MISSISSIPPI
AND FRIENDS OR RELATIVES OF
JESMYN WARD, AUTHOR OF A NEW
MEMOIR TITLED "MEN WE REAPED."
WARD'S PREVIOUS BOOK, THE NOVEL
"SALVAGE THE BONES", WON THE
2011 NATIONAL BOOK AWARD.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: YOU WRITE EARLY
HERE OF BEING AFRAID OF
GHOSTS AS A CHILD AND THEN
LATER REALIZING THAT QUOTE
MY GHOSTS WERE ONCE PEOPLE.
YOU WERE DRIVEN TO WRITE
THIS BY THE COLLECTIVE LOSS
OF FRIENDS AND RELATIVES.
>> YES.
YOU KNOW, THE FIRST WAS MY
BROTHER AND THEN ANOTHER WAS
MY COUSIN.
AND THE OTHER THREE WERE
FRIENDS OF MINE, THAT WERE
ALL PART OF THE SMALL
COMMUNITY THAT MI FROM IN
MISSISSIPPI.
>> Brown: AND WHAT WERE YOU
AFTER IN TRYING TO LOOK AT
ALL OF THEM TOGETHER WHAT
HAD HAPPENED?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I
MEANWHILE IT WAS HAPPENING,
I MEAN, I WAS JUST
BEWILDERED AND DIDN'T KNOW
HOW TO DEAL WITH GRIEF UPON
GRIEF UPON GRIEF.
AND SO YOU KNOW, YEARS LATER,
SORT OF AFTER IT HAPPENED I
DECIDED TO REVISIT, REVISIT
THEIR DEATHS.
AND TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHY
THAT WOULD HAVE OCCURRED IN
THE KIND OF PLACE THAT I'M
FROM.
>> Brown: SPEAKING OF PLACE,
THE PLACE IS ALMOST A
CHARACTER HERE RIGHT.
ON THE GULF COAST, TELL US
ABOUT THAT.
>> IT IS A SMALL TOWN.
POPULATION, I DON'T KNOW THE
EXACT COUNT BUT IT'S
PROBABLY SOMEWHERE IN LIKE
THE LOW MAYBE THOUSAND, MAY
BE A LITTLE BIT ABOVE THAT.
IT'S A SMALL TOWN WHERE
MOSTLY EVERYONE IS RELATED.
MY FAMILY ON BOTH SIDES, MY
MOTHER AND FATHER SIDE HAVE
LIVED IN THAT TOWN FOR
GENERATIONS.
AND YOU KNOW, THE PART OF
THE COMMUNITY WHERE I LIVE
AT IS MOSTLY BLACK, MOSTLY
WORKING CLASS, YOU KNOW,
MAINLY IT'S VERY QUIET.
YOU DON'T FEEL, IT'S NOT THE
KIND OF PLACE THAT PEOPLE, I
THINK, ASSOCIATE WITH
EPIDEMICS OF YOUNG BLACK MEN
DYING AND ALL THESE
UNEXPECTED AND OFTEN VIOLENT
WAYS.
AND SO I WANTED TO EXAMINE
THAT.
BECAUSE IT WAS SO OUT OF THE
ODE IT SEEMED OUT OF THE
ODE.
>> Brown: YOU USE THAT WORD,
EPIDEMIC.
I JUST WANT TO READ A
PASSAGE-- PASSAGE.
YOU SAY YOU WANTED TO
UNDERSTAND A BIT BETTER WHY
THIS EPIDEMIC HAPPENED,
ABOUT HOW THE HISTORY OF
RACISM AND ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY AND LAPSED PUBLIC
AND PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
FESTERED AND TURNED SOUR AND
SPREAD HERE.
THERE IS A LOT IN THAT
SENTENCE, RIGHT.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Brown: THERE'S CLASS
ISSUES, THERE'S RACE ISSUES,
AND WHAT YOU REFER TO AS
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Brown: THEY'RE ALL TIED
UP HERE.
>> I THINK SO I MEAN AFTER,
YOU KNOW, I SPENT, YOU KNOW,
I SPENT MANY YEARS THINKING
ABOUT THE BOOK.
AND THEN AROUND THREE ACTUAL
YEARS SORT OF WORKING ON THE
BOOK, WRITING IT AND THEN
REVISING IT AND SENDING IT
OUT TO READERS.
AT THE END OF THAT PROCESS I
REALLY FELT LIKE, LIKE ALL
OF THOSE THINGS CAME
TOGETHER IN THAT MOMENT AND
MADE THOSE DEATHS POSSIBLE.
YOU KNOW, MADE REALLY MADE
THE KIND OF CULTURE WHERE
THAT COULD HAPPEN AND THEN
KNOW ONE WOULD TALK ABOUT IT,
MADE THAT POSSIBLE.
BECAUSE THEY DID.
MY FRIENDS, MY BROTHER, THEY
ALL DIED AND THEN IT SEEMED
LIKE NO ONE, YOU KNOW, IT
WASN'T-- IT WASN'T
PROBLEMATIC FOR ANYONE.
AND THAT REALLY BOTHERED ME.
>> Brown: BUT THEY DIED IN
DIFFERENT WAYS, AS YOU SAID.
>> YES.
>> Brown: SO A CAR ACCIDENT.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Brown: A DRUG OVERDOSE,
AND YET SOMEHOW YOU'RE
SEEING IT ALL TIED TOGETHER.
BOTH THROUGH INSTITUTIONAL
CAUSES AND AS YOU SAY,
PERSONAL CHOICES IN SOME
SENSE.
>> UH-HUH, YEAH.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THESE
LARGER ISSUES LIKE THE
HISTORY OF RACISM OR LIKE
THE HISTORY OF ECONOMIC
UNEQUALITY IN THE SOUTH, I
THINK THAT THOSE, OR JUST IN
GENERAL, THE CULTURE OF THE
SOUTH THAT TELLS YOUNG BLACK
PEOPLE ALL THE TIME THAT
THEY'RE WORTH LESS.
JUST THAT THEY'RE WORTH LESS,
RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK THAT ALL OF
THOSE THINGS, YOU KNOW, BEAR
DOWN IN THE PRESENT AND
REALLY SORT OF LIMIT THE
VISION AND ALSO THE CHOICES
THAT THESE YOUNG MEAN FEEL
THAT THEY HAVE IN THEIR
LIVES.
AND I THINK LEAD TO
SITUATIONS LIKE THIS WHERE,
YOU KNOW, WHERE EITHER THEY
MAKE BAD CHOICES OR THEY
DON'T MAKE THE BEST CHOICES
AND THEN SOMETIMES THROUGH A
COMBINATION OF BAD LUCK AND
THOSE CHOICES IT LEADS TO,
YOU KNOW, DEATHS.
>> YOU YOURSELF THOUGH
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, YOU
ESCAPED.
YOU WENT TO A PRIVATE SCHOOL
PAID FOR BY THE PEOPLE YOUR
MOTHER WORKED FOR.
>> UH-HUH.
>> YOU WENT TO STANDFORD,
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
BECAME A WRITER BUT YOU'VE
GONE BACK.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Brown: SO YOU ESCAPED BUT
DIDN'T.
>> I CHOSE TO RETURN.
I MEAN IT WAS IMPORTANT FOR
ME TO GO OUT INTO THE LARGER
WORLD AND SEE WHAT WAS
THERE.
BUT THEN I FEEL A REAL SENSE
OF COMMITMENT TO THE PLACE
THAT I'M FROM AND TO THE
PEOPLE OF MY COMMUNITY
BECAUSE THAT'S WHO I WRITE
ABOUT, IN MY FICTION AND
NONVISION-- NONFICTION SO,S
IT WAS IMPORTANT TO RETURN
THERE BECAUSE THAT IS MY
SENSE.
NOT JUST BECAUSE THAT'S THE
PLACE THAT I WRITE ABOUT BUT
ALSO BECAUSE THAT'S MY
FAMILY.
I HAVE A VERY LARGE EXTENDED
LIKE I SAID, MOST PEOPLE IN
FAMILY.
THE TOWN ARE RELATED TO EACH
LIKE I SAID, MOST PEOPLE IN
OTHER.
THE TOWN ARE RELATED TO EACH
SO THERE IS A REAL SENSE OF
OTHER.
COMMUNITY AND BELONGING
SO THERE IS A REAL SENSE OF
THERE THAT I MISSED AND THAT
COMMUNITY AND BELONGING
I WANTED TO HAVE AGAIN.
THERE THAT I MISSED AND THAT
>> Brown: WE'RE GOING TO
I WANTED TO HAVE AGAIN.
CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
>> Brown: WE'RE GOING TO
ON-LINE.
CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
I WILL INVITE VIEWERS TO
ON-LINE.
WATCH LATER ON BUTOR  FNOW,
I WILL INVITE VIEWERS TO
JESMYN WARD, MEN WE REAPED,
WATCH LATER ON BUTOR  FNOW,
THANKS SO MUCH.
JESMYN WARD, MEN WE REAPED,
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
HOUSE REPUBLICANS PUSHED THROUGH
A BILL TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT
AND DE-FUND THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
IT SETS UP A POSSIBLE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN AT MONTH'S END.
AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY PROPOSED THE FIRST
NATIONAL LIMITS ON CARBON
POLLUTION FROM POWER PLANTS.
ONLINE, ONE ECONOMIST ARGUES HOW
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR MUCH OF THE
INNOVATION DRIVING ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
READ HER POSITION AND CONTRIBUTE
TO THE DISCUSSION ON MAKING
SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR
PBS COLLEAGUES.
AS WE SAID EARLIER, GWEN IS OFF
PREPARING FOR "WASHINGTON WEEK"
WHICH AIRS LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: BOTH SIDES CALL IT A
TRAIN WRECK WAITING TO HAPPEN.
TONIGHT, WE GIVE YOU THE STORY
BEHIND THE STORY OF THE FIGHT
OVER THE BUDGET, HEALTH CARE AND
THE DEBT CEILING.
ALL COMING TO A HEAD AT ONCE.
THAT'S THIS WEEK ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND COMING UP
SATURDAY.
HARI SREENIVASAN AND THE TEAM IN
NEW YORK HAVE A STORY FROM
PORTLAND, OREGON ABOUT A PLAN TO
RAISE FUNDS FOR HIGHWAY
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
HERE'S A BRIEF EXCERPT OF THE
STORY REPORTED BY CORRESPONDENT
RICK KARR.
>> DOES THE GAS TAX GENERATE
ENOUGH REVENUE FOR THE STATE
OF OREGON TO MAINTAIN ITS
ROADS PROPERLY?
>> NO.
>> JUST PLAIN NO.
>> VICI BERGER IS A
REPUBLICAN MEMBER OF THE
OREGON HOUSE.
SHE SAYS AS THE STATE'S
RESIDENTS BUY EVEN MORE
EFFICIENT CARS AN LESS GAS,
THE BUDGET CRUNCH IS ONLY
GOING TO GET WORSE.
BUT SHE THINKS THERE MAY BE
A SOLUTION.
INSTEAD OF HAVING OREGON
MOTORISTS PAY A 30 CENT TAX
ON EVERY GALLON OF GAS THEY
BUY, HAVE THEY PAY A FEE OF
A PENNY OR TWO FOR EVERY
MILE THEY DRIVE.
IT'S KNOWN AS A VEHICLE
MILES TRAVEL OR VMT FEE.
OREGON WAS THE FIRST STATE
IN THE UNION TO IMPOSE A GAS
TAX NEARLY A CENTURY AGO.
AND IN 2006 IT SET UP AN
EXPERIMENT TO SEE WHETHER IT
MIGHT BE ABLE TO LEAD THE
NATION AGAIN.
>> THAT'S ON
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" TOMORROW
NIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE TALK WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON ABOUT
IRAN, SYRIA, THE CLINTON GLOBAL
INITIATIVE AND MORE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.